1. No acronym/abbreviation is allowed for function/type/variable names, unless it is commonly used in published literature. For example, it is acceptable to use "fft" for the fast Fourier transform, but using "bz" for the Brillouin zone, Benzene, or Bezanson is not allowed. Note that single-letter Mathematical symbols are not linguistic acronym/abbreviations, and they can be used. For example, `for k in brillouin_zone` is fine, but `for iknum=ikbgn:ikend; kpnt = bz[:, iknum]` is not allowed.
2. No more than two levels of indentation is allowed for procedural code. This rule does not apply to non-procedural programming. For example, three levels of nested for loops or if statements are not allowed, but nested comprehensions or reductions can be arbitrarily indented. One can substitute many `for/while` loops with more specific types of iteration (broadcasting/mapping/reduction/recursion) and replace `if/then/else` with more specific types of predicates (multiple dispatch/filter/ternary operator/short circuiting). 
3. Do not write comment to explain things. If you think a piece of code requires an explanation, please refactor the code (into functions with appropriate names) until it doesn't or just leave a url to something more illustrative than unicode. Explaining things with comments is mostly useless and sometimes harmful in an expressive language. Also, don't use comment for who did what at what time for what purpose. VCS does that better without polluting the code base. In general, the primary purpose of comments should be sarcarsm.
4. The scope of any variable cannot surpass 30 single lines of code (SLOC), which is less than a page on most monitors with a reasonable font. That is, all functions have to fit in one screen, and global variables are verboten. 